# SNHU-CS360

The requirements and goals of the application developed were for inventory tracking applications, where it’s designed to authenticate and end users using a password and a user identifier to ensure only authorized edits take place. After the user signs in, the application is designed to add, remove, increase, and decrease items that were added to the database. The application will have the option to send an alert to a user if the stock drops low on a radio button in the settings menu of the app. The inventory should be organized into a grid format to make it easy to navigate. 

The screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the application. This application was supposed to utilize four screens, including a login, a grid view display of inventory, settings, and SMS notifications, as well as an option to add items in the flow. While developing the application, the goal was to keep the user in mind while developing the UI screens by using a variety of greens and blues to stay within the theme, and each screen would flow to the next screen without being confused or misleading. This application had the intention to work well, being the first of its kind, by following end users with the intention of initially keeping it on the Android core application quality documentation. 

The approach to coding this application started with big ideas and tried to overcomplicate the application more than was needed. Naturally, this slowed down the process significantly, causing me to scrap the process and start all over from the beginning, with the issue of having more features and not enough running applications to balance it out. Moving forward from this mistake, I had to take a different approach by starting with a working application and then slowly adding on features like the notification system or the menu in the application. Looking into the future developments, I have learned that it helps to start with a working application before adding on desired features. 

To ensure my code was functional, I had focused the test on functional and running without any errors first by testing out a small handful of emulated devices in Android while also testing different screen sizes across different devices. This, I believe, was important when developing an application; it falls on the developer to be able to test the application on multiple platforms to ensure anybody can use it. 

Considering the full application design and the development process showed that I was struggling with everything at every step. One of the many issues that arose was setting up the notification screen, but I ran into the problem of it not being able to flow with the menu, while not completely understanding how to connect things. I had to reference some tutorial videos online to help come up with some sort of solution. One of the specific components of the mobile application was creating the login authentication screen. Building the application with SQL, along with its different options like MySQL and NoSQL to look forward to pairing the different programming languages with database integration. 
